Cloud templates (#1552)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/influxdb-templates/cloud.md

products: [cloud]
---

To use templates in InfluxDB Cloud, you have a couple options:

> - [Install and customize templates directly in the Cloud UI](#install-and-customize-a-template-in-the-cloud-ui)

Reviewer: we use the term Apply in the cli and Install in the UI. I think it's out of scope for this PR, but we should probably unify the terms to one or the other - it's a bit confusing that there are two words that mean the same thing.

Author: I'll update globally once we update the corresponding terms in the UI

- [Apply and manage templates using the `influx` CLI](#apply-and-manage-templates-using-the-influx-cli)

## Install and customize a template in the Cloud UI

{{% note %}}

> To ensure the template works, complete the **ReadMe** instructions after installing a template. For example, you may need to create a bucket with a specific name in your Cloud instance before the template can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the template works, complete the **ReadMe** instructions after installing a template. For example, you may need to configure telegraf to write specific data to your Cloud instance before the template can be used.
```

suggestion: telegraf is by far the most common configuration instruction we ran into when going over the testing document: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-jLiZtxOImQBKLZf5uWAptxfJn_LciBgFmzvChbB1oo/edit#gid=0

{{% /note %}}

1. Under **Settings** icon in the navigation bar.

    {{< nav-icon "settings" >}}

2. Click **Templates**.
3. (Optional) If you already have a template URL, you can skip this step. Click **Browse Community Templates** to explore templates and obtain a template URL (YAML or JSON file).
4. Enter the URL to the template's YAML or JSON file (from the [InfluxData Community Templates](https://github.com/influxdata/community-templates) repository), and then click **Lookup Template**.

> The Template Installer displays the template name and the number of resources included in the template (for example, dashboards, Telegraf configurations, buckets, and more).

Reviewer: might want to mention that some resources can be unchecked, meaning they won't be applied

5. Click **Install Template**. A message confirms the template has been successfully installed.
6. Under **Installed Templates**, find the template, and do the following:
   - Click **View Readme**. Complete the instructions to finalize your template.
   - (Optional) To customize a template, under **Installed Resources**, expand the template resources, and then click a resource to update it. Update any of the following resources included in the template:

    - Buckets. [Update buckets](/influxdb/v2.0/organizations/buckets/update-bucket/)
    - Dashboards. [Control dashboards](/influxdb/v2.0/visualize-data/dashboards/control-dashboard/)
    - Labels. [Edit labels](/influxdb/v2.0/visualize-data/labels/#edit-a-label)
    - Checks. [Update checks](/influxdb/v2.0/monitor-alert/checks/update/)
    - Notification endpoints. [Update notification endpoints](/influxdb/v2.0/monitor-alert/notification-endpoints/update/)
    - Notification rules. [Update notification rules](/influxdb/v2.0/monitor-alert/notification-rules/update/)
    - Telegraf configurations. [Update a Telegraf configurations](/influxdb/v2.0/telegraf-configs/update/)

> 7. (Optional) Add or delete resources from the template, and then use the `influx` CLI to [export resources to a new template (JSON or YAML file)](/influxdb/v2.0/influxdb-templates/create/#export-all-resources).

Author: Figured links to add/delete resources docs were extra, so left them out. Will include if we feel it's better to be explicit here.
